I'll give you information about
my missions. about my tradecraft.
but nothing about the people I work with...
I won't endanger anyone.
Then why are you defecting?
For that?
_
- _
You and the traitor will
be debriefed separately.
It's a trap. Run.
---
I need to go.
Report from Katia M. secretary to
Oleg Dornin. Soviet trade envoy.
Questioned in character for 11 hours
but did not retrieve any notable intel.
Instead have obtained
pictures of appointments diary
covering January and February 1972.
Also enclosed are copies
of family photographs.
Registry currently cross-referencing
in case any subjects
are persons of interest.
Report ends.
Synced and corrected by chamallow
www.addic7ed.com
And. let me tell you.
I worshipped that man.
But confidence is on the floor.
And in our game. insecurity can cost lives.
Now. my chief concern... My only concern.
is what's best for the
department. the country.
the memory of that once great man.
Now...
- Call for you. Mr Waterhouse.
- Wait!
Now. some have suggested
that I take the reins. I...
All I can say is. the thought's
never occurred to me...
It's not my mother. is it?
The strategic arms limitation
talks continue in Helsinki.
However. proceedings were delayed
today when the U.S. delegation
refused to attend the morning session
after hearing reports that the U.S.S.R.
had. in fact. stepped up production
of anti-ballistic missiles
instead of freezing it.
Domestic news. As the miners'
strike enters its fifth week.
power cuts and other restrictions are
being introduced across the country.
---
Here's a report from our
correspondent. Martin Bell.
The first effect of the
emergency will be seen
in the darkening of city centres.
In fact. it's already started...
Sarah. do you need this one?
All yours.
With me.
... for from then it becomes
an offence to use electricity
for advertising or floodlighting.
The penalty for such an offence...
... a £100 pound fine. or
three months in jail. or both.
The emergency regulations will also relieve
the electricity authorities
of their responsibility
to maintain uninterrupted supplies.
So. they'll be able to economise
where they have to. and to keep
the power flowing where it's needed.
What was she talking to you about?
- What?
- Her.
Sarah. Daddy's girl. What was she saying?
Nothing.
She was watching the news.
I went in to watch it with her.
Thick as thieves. you two.
So. Arkady Malinov.
Since '62. he's been a lecturer
at Reading University. for his sins.
Pure as the driven. so
we thought. until today.
when he drinks a bath full of vodka
and punches a policeman.
But once in custody. he lets it be
known that he is in fact. Colonel
Arkady blah-blah of the Committee for
State Security and wishes to parley.
So. we've released him. told him to roll up at
the Olympic Hotel in Earls Court later today.
There he shall have the dubious
pleasure of being debriefed by you.
- Why me?
- Oh. Don't look at me.
It was Daddy's idea.
After that fiasco in Poland. I was
lobbying for you to get your P45.
That's what they call it. isn't it?
We had to give up three of our
most prized catches to get you back.
I mean. what were you even doing there?
I'll give you information about
my missions. about my tradecraft.
but nothing about the people I work with...
I won't endanger anyone.
I was following up on a possible defection.
Well. we are a merciful bunch. apparently.
Hence. this chance to redeem yourself.
Look. chances are. he just wants to defect.
So. convince him to stay on the
Kremlin's payroll and work for us.
Take Alan with you. he'll be your ears.
Chin up!
It'll make a nice change from bedding
secretaries and forgotten wives. no?
So. Joe.
How do you like to spend your free time?
Are you a member of a team or club?
Maybe you enjoy more solitary pursuits...
Ah. like model-making or canoeing?
Yeah. as you know. small
talk isn't my strong suit.
So. actually. Sarah thought that a
list of prepared topics might help.
Um. "Mutual friends."
Bit sticky.
"Politics." Bit of a minefield.
"Sport." Gosh. no.
"Leisure activities." That's all I have.
It's fine.
We'll talk about work.
Thank you.
Right! That's one in the lamp. one
in the showerhead in the bathroom.
I need to check the levels.
When I tap on the wall. you say something.
Like what?
- Oh. anything. A nursery rhyme.
- I don't know any.
Everyone knows a nursery rhyme.
Frère Jacques?
Pease Pudding Hot?
Yesterday Upon the Stair.
- I know that one.
- Capital.
Yesterday. upon the stair.
I met a man who wasn't there.
He's here.
- How long have we got?
- An hour.
You understand we cannot discuss payments
until your debrief has been completed.
This takes about six months
and your product assessed.
Colonel?
Yeah.
Though. of course. our
rates of pay increase.
if you stay in situ and help us
gather intel on a more regular basis.
Yes. this is what I want.
I am going to work for MI5.
Well. that's very nice of you.
So. you know the drill.
We'll start with your name and rank.
then move onto your war record.
There is no time.
I have information about
a major KGB operation
about to take place on United Kingdom soil.
It has been named Operation Glass.
What are the objectives of this operation?
I don't know.
Well. how many people does it involve?
Why is it called Operation Glass?
- I do not know.
- So exactly which bit of this plan
that you know nothing about
has offended you so much
that you want to betray your country?
Years from now. the story of
British and Soviet espionage
will be divided into before
and after this moment.
Before and after Operation Glass.
They are going to tear everything down.
At this point. I paused the interview.
I needed to speak to Bobby.
I asked Alan to babysit Arkady. I
went downstairs to phone The Fray.
For product of this quality.
Arkady wanted £10.000
and a new identity.
I said not a penny more then 5.000 and
a new identity would only be provided
if the veracity of this operation were proven.
He grumbled a bit but
seemed generally satisfied
and told me everything he
knows about Operation Glass.
I have a name.
As time goes on. I will have more.
Each a retired or inactive
agent. a British citizen.
Each name come with an instruction
just for them.
I will approach them
and give them their task.
How are you given the names?
A dead-letter drop.
The men's' toilets in Boston Manor Park.
I know to pick it up
because they put advert
in classified ads in The Times.
It say. "Cousin Andrew. Please visit us."
Who's the first agent?
David Hexton.
He used to work in. er.
Ministry of Agriculture.
You still haven't told
me why you're turning.
Why am I turning?
I want to be a capitalist.
I want to read The Times
and see the Oxford and Cambridge boat race.
I want my children to go to Eton.
You should know more about this plan.
What aren't you telling me?
Understand this.
Operation Glass is a jigsaw.
No one sees all the pieces.
But all the world will
see the finished picture.
"A jigsaw." I mean... "Planned in the
shadows." What is he talking about?
I hate it when they try to be enigmatic.
Well. in terms of "why". this
new desire for a Western life.
something about it doesn't sit quite right.
But as for. "Why now". it's as I said.
years of being ignored. denied
significant operational responsibility.
he's lost loyalty to the cause.
Yes. but this Operation Glass.
if it succeeds. if it's real.
won't that reflect well on him?
I see what Joe's getting at.
Arkady is only a postman and he knows it.
He's finally been invited to the top table
and he's just dishing out the soup.
If he wrecks the whole
thing. he's in control.
He's important. perhaps. for
the first time in his career.
It all sounds damn fishy to me. I mean.
he's broken enough legs
to make colonel in the KGB.
but he's going to turn his back on the whole
lot because he fancies a trip to Harrods?
Daddy. some sense. I implore you.
We are ancient nations. we
both want this war to end.
Eventually. one of us would find
a way to break the stalemate.
But the warrior who lifts
his arm for the killer blow
leaves his heart exposed.
Bloody miners!
Working?
On a Sunday?
No. Er...
Yes. um. bit of a breakthrough at work.
Netted a big fish.
It's all very hush-hush. but.
er. all hands to the pump.
Do they appreciate you. my darling?
- Shall I talk to them again?
- No!
God. no.
No. they're cock-a-hoop with me.
Really. Full of praise.
No. this. um...
Daddy's formed a special committee.
Asked for me personally.
My Hercules.
You'll bring glory to our name once more.
Won't you?
Mother. really.
you are too much!
Now. I will not stand for this!
You'll do as you're
bloody well told. darling.
Moscow will give the names
of the agents to Arkady
one by one via a dead-letter drop.
The first is David Hexton. By now.
Arkady will have activated him
and passed on instructions.
You debriefed Arkady. you're
inclined to believe him.
The only time that I thought
Arkady was actually lying to me
was when I asked him why he was turning.
He moved the ashtray
and placed it between us.
Liars often place objects between
themselves and the person they're talking to.
I want to read The Times and see
the Oxford and Cambridge boat race.
But you believe the operation is real?
And regardless of his motivations. you
believe Arkady is genuinely switching sides?
- Yes.
- I'm sorry. I don't mean to. er...
I'm. I'm right in saying that
you don't know actually what
Operation Glass is. do you?
Can I just ask who this chap is?
Sorry. it's just we
haven't been introduced.
Unless I missed it? Did you all introduce
yourselves while I was padlocking my bike?
This is Detective Constable Jim
Fenchurch from Special Branch.
Jim will be joining us
as our police liaison.
Jim. this is Bobby Waterhouse.
head of Counter-Espionage
here at The Fray.
Sarah Montag. his deputy. but also
what we like to call a reflector.
She has a genius for deducing
motives and intentions.
You said The Fray.
- Well. what's The Fray?
- Where we find ourselves now.
The central offices of MI5.
Alan. her husband.
one of our nosey parkers. in
charge of bugs and wire-taps
and
Joe Lambe.
A man of. er. obscure
and formidable talents.
And of course. Wendy.
on loan from the Nannies.
So. Jim. You were saying.
Yeah. you don't actually
know what it is you're investigating.
This isn't a conventional war. Jim.
The objectives. even our own.
are unclear and ever-changing.
Do the Soviets want to oppress us?
Without question. But how?
Will they invade us?
Will they raise us to the
ground with a nuclear strike?
Or will they infiltrate and
destabilise us from the inside?
We don't know.
It is a war of variables and unknowns
and all we can do is watch.
surmise. and react.
Bobby. talk to everyone in
your legendary address book.
Alan. I want you to go through every inch
of recorded conversation.
flagging the word "Glass."
Joe. take Jim. contact David.
find out what his instructions are
and attempt to get him into bed with us.
Wendy.
Joe. A quick word. Um. I'm...
... worried about Daddy.
We all know his tenure has
been. shall we say. lacklustre.
One more cock-up. he'll
be getting his clock.
which will be heart-breaking.
blah-blah. but may be a blessing.
Put the old dog out of his misery. I mean.
the business with the Chinese dancer.
People gossip. it's ghastly.
but that's people for you.
Now what to do?
Perhaps you could keep an eye on him.
Talk to him. see what's going
on in that once-great noggin.
And report back to you.
Someone has to mind the shop.
The old man is losing his grip.
I'm not the right man for this.
- But Daddy trusts you.
- Which is why I'm not the...
Forget it.
This is no time for sentiment. Joe.
We must look to the future.
It's just a game. Bobby.
And this is why.
I didn't ask for this assignment.
I want to make that clear.
I don't agree with you.
- You don't agree with us?
- Why is he called Daddy?
It's childish. What's his real name?
No one knows.
What do you mean you don't agree with us?
I'm not impressed by this world.
You're arrogant.
Not you.
- "You."
- Yeah.
You think you're above the law.
I think this is a
conversation for another time.
- I'm not impressed.
- Yeah. yeah.
You might have mentioned that.
Right. I need you to get us in there.
I don't have any jurisdiction.
After that. just stand there.
Be stoic. What you've been doing.
Be unimpressed.
- And my name's Henderson.
- I thought it was Lambe.
It is. It just isn't here.
David Hexton?
I'm Detective Constable
James Fenchurch. This is
Mr Henderson. We'd like to talk to you.
Oh. thank God.
Thank God.
I want to make it absolutely...
I've had no contact. no dealings with. uh.
with Russia for years.
Until yesterday. when one of
their agents approached you.
Yes. yes. that's...
- That's right.
- What did he give you?
It's encrypted in the same
code I used when I was...
When I worked for them.
What does it say?
An address. a flat in Marylebone.
Underneath it is the
name of a letting agent.
The instruction is to go to
them and to lease that flat.
And?
- That's it.
- That's it?
- Lease a flat?
- Yeah.
So you've done that already?
Yesterday. Straight away.
What are you supposed to do with these now
for the man who approached you yesterday?
Are you meant to give them to him?
No. he. uh. said he was just a messenger.
Someone was coming to pick them up today.
I thought you were them.
Right. when they come.
this is what you say.
You tell them that the estate agent
still hasn't given you the keys.
you're picking them up this evening.
We need to get into that flat first.
Tell them to meet you
there tonight at 9:00 p.m..
no earlier. to hand over
the keys. have you got that?
But you'll be there instead.
No. we'll be there as well.
You'll give them the keys.
you'll act as if nothing's wrong.
I thought you'd
- come to help me...
- By the way. Operation Glass.
does that mean anything to you?
Er... No...
Or perhaps someone mentioned it when
you were working with the Soviets?
Never. Look. about tonight. I really...
Why did you do it?
Betray your country. Hmm?
I'm curious.
Look. I only worked for the Ministry of
Agriculture. I couldn't give them anything.
I don't know. crucial.
It's my wife.
She's East German.
The Soviets allowed her to emigrate
in exchange for information.
I did it for her.
I did it to be with her.
9:00 p.m. Don't forget.
- Who is it?
- Them.
The KGB?
They're here.
You are joking?
Welcome to MI5.
Hello. David.
- You are alone?
- Yes.
- It is done?
- Yes. yes.
But the. uh. the thing is. the letting
agent hasn't given me the keys yet.
I'm. uh. picking them up this evening.
So I thought I could meet
you there and hand them over.
About 9:00?
You're not lying to me. are you?
Of course not.
Is there anything else?
It's just. my wife's due
back from work any minute.
No. no. no. no.
See you later.
That's it.
I'm sorry. I can't do this. I can't.
can't go through with it.
I'd fall apart. I know it.
I'd. uh. say the wrong thing.
No! No! Get off me!
Couldn't someone pose as the
letting agent. say. or even...
Shut up.
You passed information
to a hostile government.
Harmless info...
Crop yields. the efficiency
of certain fertilisers...
A regime that might be about to
put our entire country under siege.
You told them how much food we have.
You told them how to
make chemical weaponry!
Now you're going to do this.
You are going to serve the country
you betrayed or I'll make sure
your wife gets deported and you
spend the rest of your life in prison.
Is that clear?
What?
David. this is an opportunity.
Not just to repay your
debt. but to be a hero.
To be a soldier.
To fight for something greater than us.
See you tonight.
Listen. a scouser goes to a prostitute
and she says to him. "Do
you fancy a blow job?"
He says. "I don't know. Will
it affect me dole money?"
So Paddy. right. Paddy
gets arrested for rape.
And they put him in a line
up with ten other blokes
and they escort this woman in.
and Paddy yells out. "That's
her! I'd recognise her anywhere!"
Listen. two monkeys in a bath...
So what have you got?
So I ask around the immigrant clubs.
I hate those places. full of foreigners.
I speak to Sergei. He's the caretaker.
"Sergei. what do you
know about a Moscow hood.
ruthless bastard. peels apples?"
And he goes pale
and he says. "You mean Odin?"
- Odin?
- Mmm.
Anyway. then he get all scared
and he says. "Shut up.
What do I know about Russian
hoods? Leave me alone."
This is all I get.
But listen to Kitty...
I got a bad feeling about this.
When Sergei talk about this Odin.
he's scared.
I'm saying be careful.
You're too beautiful to die.
Why are you putting the microphone there?
Oh. uh. because it's where we'd stand.
It's the door. window.
Why this flat?
I don't understand.
What's so special about this flat?
Um. do we have a coffin?
To put David in.
When he's shot.
By the KGB.
To put his dead body in?
It's humour to lighten... lighten the mood.
Okay.
You'll be fine.
Stay calm.
Remember. we're just down the corridor.
The man that came to
your flat this morning.
one of them peeled an apple
with a knife. do you remember?
Yeah.
If he is one of the men you let in.
I want you to say.
"I almost bought some vodka. but I
thought it was a bit of a cliché."
Say it over there. by the microphone.
What?
"I almost bought some vodka.
but I thought it was a bit of a cliché."
I...
almost bought some vodka. but I
thought it was a bit of a cliché.
If...
If it's the man who peeled the apple.
Yeah.
Multiple movements in the corridor.
The door is opening.
David has moved to the centre of the room.
two men have entered behind him.
one heavy set.
the other lithe.
there's no sound of the impact
of their shoes on the floor.
just the creak of the boards.
so they're wearing rubber soles.
The heavy one is still
in front of the door.
This is excellent. David.
you've done very well.
I can't hear what they're saying.
Do you...
Do you want something to drink?
I almost. uh...
I almost bought some vodka.
but I thought it was a bit of a cliché.
Now the other one's crossing
quickly to the window.
He's closing the blinds.
Why's he closing the blinds?
What's going on?
What's he saying?
Jesus...
Shit!
Stay here.
All right.
- Do you think he's all right?
- I doubt it.
You just hit him with a plank.
Come on.
It's not him.
It's not who?
Joe? Hey!
You go that way.
Hey. how come you get the gun?
Joe!
Hello. Joe.
Drop the gun or I'll shoot.
If you do. the muscles
in my arm will spasm.
I pull the trigger. and your
friend will die very messily.
Let us try to avoid that.
Joe don't shoot. Joe!
If you wanted to shoot him.
you would have done it by now.
You never had any problem
shooting an unarmed woman.
She was a traitor.
Which reminds me.
what do they know about you?
They know everything.
Liar.
Joe. when you imagine this
moment. as I'm sure you have.
what happens?
I kill you.
Then. what are you waiting for?
If he dies. you can say he
was caught in the crossfire.
No one will know.
Come on. Joe.
Joe. please!
Please!
Goodbye. Joe.
This must be hard.
But don't worry. Soon
everything will become clear.
Oh. shit.
No!
Yulia!
Bad show.
The geese fly south in winter.
Ah. yes.
But the gander is. um...
No. The gander tends to...
What? "The gander"?
And their eggs are most
- plentiful when the...
- Please stop.
This is painful.
I heard what happened.
Oh. my love.
I'm fine.
Joe and that Jim chap engaged.
I'm ashamed to say I hid.
I'd have been furious if you hadn't.
I want to have the conversation.
- Oh. Sarah.
- No. not that one.
The Marconi one.
Someone died tonight.
Yards away from you.
All I'm saying is. with
your skills you could walk...
... straight into somewhere like Marconi.
Is this really about my safety?
You're destined for great things.
and a husband who tinkers with
wires and microphones is hardly...
Is that why you think I want
you to get a different job?
To make you more suitable for me?
People talk. Sarah.
Because they don't understand us.
Not in this world.
Come on.
Best case scenario.
Moscow don't know Arkady has turned.
They think David approached us directly.
and that's why they killed him.
From Joe's report. he clearly didn't
want to be part of any operation.
ours or theirs. so it's
not hard to imagine.
I want Arkady taken
into protective custody.
He can be debriefed later.
just get him out of harm's way.
Wait.
Let's think about this.
Moscow will know Arkady won't
have used his real name with David.
any more than we would.
You think Moscow might
keep Arkady as a go-between?
If this operation is as top
secret as we've been told.
they won't want to risk
bringing more people in.
We just won't know for sure until
they contact Arkady with the next name.
Or his body is washed up on a beach.
There is another possible explanation
as to why they killed David.
We have a mole.
Not just in MI5. but in this group.
In this room.
Joe. Daddy. Bobby. Alan.
Wendy. Jim or myself.
One of us told Moscow about this.
The signal has been given. Another name has
been left for Arkady in the dead-letter drop.
If Moscow know he's working for us.
It'll be a trap. They'll
be waiting for him.
I say. get Arkady into a safe house.
wait for Moscow's next move.
Except Moscow's next move could be
the Red Army marching down the mount.
Daddy. we need a decision.
We continue.
We assume Moscow don't know about Arkady.
We assume there is no mole.
We let Arkady collect the next name.
We endanger the few
to protect the many.
Come.
The agent that was killed in Poland.
I had allowed our relationship to become...
... unprofessional.
She was killed by the same man
that David Hexton met at the flat.
David was
scared.
unreliable
and vulnerable.
In my eagerness to expose this man.
I convinced him to participate
in the operation that killed him.
If I reassign you. will you
abandon your search for this man?
- No.
- Then our objectives are the same.
Find him
and you find the truth of Operation Glass.
You know what I was doing in Poland?
Yes. You were attempting to
infiltrate the Soviet Security Service.
Your cover was that of a
disaffected MI5 officer.
Once you had gained their trust.
the plan was to relay intel back to us
and feed them prepared
misinformation.
But that's not true.
Really?
That's what it says in your file.
I should know.
I wrote it.
Why? Hmm?
Why save me?
It's not quite as
altruistic as it might seem.
This second chance I've given
you will pass unremarked.
we are Englishmen after all.
But I know
it will not be forgotten.
Could I rely on you
never to betray a country?
Perhaps not.
Could I rely on you never to betray me?
Yes.
I believe I could.
I'm sorry. Joe.
I have to trust someone.
and I've decided
it's you.
I understand now.
After I saw what they did to David.
I mean. I still don't
think there's anything
impressive or
romantic about this.
But I now see you're necessary.
If the mission is all that this is about.
Who was the girl?
I forget.
This is an opportunity for you
to be a soldier. To be a hero.
To fight for something greater than us.
Would I be safe?
Trust me.
Kitty?
Kitty!
Oh. my God!
Don't speak. Don't speak.
I'll get help... Okay.
Why you do this to me. beautiful?
What?
They said
you ordered it.
What are you saying?
You lied to me. Joe.
You're a traitor.
Yulia! Yulia!
Yulia!
No!
I'm so sorry.
Resynced and corrected by Vegemite
- www.addic7ed.com -